fst : Extract the first component of a pair.
snd : Extract the second component of a pair.

curry : converts an uncurried function to a curried function.
uncurry : converts a curried function to a function on pairs.

succ : the successor of a value. For numeric types, succ adds 1.
pred : the predecessor of a value. For numeric types, pred subtracts 1.

negate : Unary negation.
abs : Absolute value.
signum : Sign of a number. The functions abs and signum should satisfy the law:

quot : integer division truncated toward zero
rem : integer remainder, satisfying
div : integer division truncated toward negative infinity
mod : integer modulus, satisfying
divMod : simultaneous div and mod

gcd : gcd x y is the non-negative factor of both x and y of which every common factor of x and y is also a factor; for example gcd 4 2 = 2, gcd (-4) 6 = 2, gcd 0 4 = 4. gcd 0 0 = 0. (That is, the common divisor that is "greatest" in the divisibility preordering.)

const : Representation of constructors. Note that equality on constructors with different types may not work -- i.e. the constructors for False and Nothing may compare equal.

id : Identity function.
constr : Representation of constructors. Note that equality on constructors with different types may not work -- i.e. the constructors for False and Nothing may compare equal.
(.) : Function composition.

flip: flip f takes its (first) two arguments in the reverse order of f.
($) : Application operator. This operator is redundant, since ordinary application (f x) means the same as (f $ x). However, $ has low, right-associative binding precedence, so it sometimes allows parentheses to be omitted; for example:

error : error stops execution and displays an error message.
undefined : A special case of error. It is expected that compilers will recognize this and insert error messages which are more appropriate to the context in which undefined appears.

map : . map f xs is the list obtained by applying f to each element of xs, i.e.,
(++) : Append two lists
filter : applied to a predicate and a list, returns the list of those elements that satisfy the predicate; i.e.,

head : Extract the first element of a list, which must be non-empty.
last : Extract the last element of a list, which must be finite and non-empty.
tail :  Extract the elements after the head of a list, which must be non-empty.
init : Return all the elements of a list except the last one. The list must be non-empty.
(!!) : List index (subscript) operator, starting from 0. It is an instance of the more general genericIndex, which takes an index of any integral type.
null : Test whether the structure is empty. 

length : Returns the size/length of a finite structure as an Int. 
reverse : reverse xs returns the elements of xs in reverse order. xs must be finite.

foldr : foldr' is a variant of foldr that begins list reduction from the last element and evaluates the accumulator strictly as it unwinds the stack back to the beginning of the list. The input list must be finite, otherwise foldr' runs out of space (diverges).
foldr1 : foldr1 is a variant of foldr that has no starting value argument, and thus must be applied to non-empty lists. Note that unlike foldr, the accumulated value must be of the same type as the list elements.
foldl : foldl, applied to a binary operator, a starting value (typically the left-identity of the operator), and a list, reduces the list using the binary operator, from left to right:
foldl1 : A strict version of foldl.

scanl : scanl is similar to foldl, but returns a list of successive reduced values from the left:
iterate : iterate f x returns an infinite list of repeated applications of f to x
repeat x is an infinite list, with x the value of every element.
replicate : replicate n x is a list of length n with x the value of every element
cycle : ties a finite list into a circular one, or equivalently, the infinite repetition of the original list. It is the identity on infinite lists.

take : take n, applied to a list xs, returns the prefix of xs of length n, or xs itself if n >= length xs.
drop : drop n xs returns the suffix of xs after the first n elements, or [] if n >= length xs.
takeWhile : applied to a predicate p and a list xs, returns the longest prefix (possibly empty) of xs of elements that satisfy p.
dropWhile : p xs returns the suffix remaining after takeWhile p xs.
break : applied to a predicate p and a list xs, returns a tuple where first element is longest prefix (possibly empty) of xs of elements that do not satisfy p and second element is the remainder of the list:
splitAt : n xs returns a tuple where first element is xs prefix of length n and second element is the remainder of the list:

zip : takes two lists and returns a list of corresponding pairs.
zipWith : generalises zip by zipping with the function given as the first argument, instead of a tupling function.
unzip : transforms a list of pairs into a list of first components and a list of second components.

lines : Splits the argument into a list of lines stripped of their terminating n characters. The n terminator is optional in a final non-empty line of the argument string.
words : breaks a string up into a list of words, which were delimited by white space.
uinlines : Appends a n character to each input string, then concatenates the results. Equivalent to foldMap (s -> s ++ "n").
unwords : an inverse operation to words. It joins words with separating spaces.


`length (drop 3 "hello world!")`
length of "hello world!" after the first 3 characters
output:9
type : Int

`take (length "hello") "goodbye all!"`
takes the first 5 characters from the string given (as hello is 5 long)
output: "goodb"
type: [Char]

`dropWhile (/=' ') "hello world!"`
gets all strings after a space
output: " world!"
type : [Char]

`filter (/=' ') "hello world!"`
remove space from given string
output: "helloworld!"
type: [Char]

`foldr (+) 0 [3, 5, 7]`
Adds all numbers in a list
output: 15
type: Int

`zip [0..] ['A'..'Z']`
zip 0 of n length with all char from A-Z
output : [(0,'A'),(1,'B'),(2,'C'),(3,'D'),(4,'E'),(5,'F'),(6,'G'),(7,'H'),(8,'I'),(9,'J'),(10,'K'),(11,'L'),(12,'M'),(13,'N'),(14,'O'),(15,'P'),(16,'Q'),(17,'R'),(18,'S'),(19,'T'),(20,'U'),(21,'V'),(22,'W'),(23,'X'),(24,'Y'),(25,'Z')]
type:  [(a, Char)]

`takeWhile ((<9).fst) $ zip [0..] ['A'..'Z']`
take first 9 elements from list
output: [(0,'A'),(1,'B'),(2,'C'),(3,'D'),(4,'E'),(5,'F'),(6,'G'),(7,'H'),(8,'I')]
type: [(a, Char)]

`zip [0..] (take 9 ['A'..'Z'])`
take first 9 elements from list
output: [(0,'A'),(1,'B'),(2,'C'),(3,'D'),(4,'E'),(5,'F'),(6,'G'),(7,'H'),(8,'I')]
type: [(a, Char)]

`if 0==0 then "OK" else undefined`
if 0==0 then return "OK" else return undefined
output: "OK"
type: String

`if 0==1 then "OK" else undefined`
if 0==1 then return "OK" else return undefined
output: error
type: Error